>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
we have reached the end of our course and
I wanna make sure that we just
look over where we've come and
give you a road map to going back and
reviewing these things.
The material that we've gone over
in this course is stuff that
you can't learn in eight or ten hours.
It's gonna take days, weeks, months,
even potentially years of
working with this stuff.
So this hopefully is a course and
the book that is a companion to it,
is a road map for you to go back and try
these things little, by little, by little.
What I hope that you get out of this, is
that you could take just the concepts in
the discussion of functions and
the idea of avoiding side effects and
the idea of doing some point
free style refactorings and
just do that in your
programming code base.
And you would improve
things substantially.
And then you could later on some
closure to start remembering things and
using some currying techniques and
then you could layer on composition for
your data flows and
then you could layer on immutability.
And the point that I'm trying to make is
you don't have to go wholesale entirely,
all functional programming.
The idea behind functional line,
is a ground up, pragmatic and
most of all incremental approach
to layering these things,
using immutability,
using the ideas of recursion.
Using lists and data structure
operations and adapting things for
asynchrony over time.
Little, by little, by little,
you'll refactor your code bases.
The truth is, that even several years into
this journey of learning function and
adapting it to my JavaScript code,
I still don't start out
writing a functional program.
I definitely avoid some
problems that I've gotten so
comfortable with,
that from the very beginning I can write.
But for the most part, the way I
still write my programs, is I write
the imperative form and then I go back and
I refactor it to be more functional.
And I do that little,
by little, by little.
And then I'll write another piece of
my app and it's very imperative and
there's bugs and weird stuff.
And little, by little, by little, as I
refactor it, I try to make it better and
better and
better with the principles of functional.
And my journey points to the idea
that you can't really just
go top down at functional.
If you learned as
an imperative programmer,
the way all of us did,
you really have to go bottom up.
There's no other way to climb the cliff,
than one step at a time,
you can't just jump to the top.
You gotta climb this
cliff one step at a time.
And I hope what you've
gotten out of this course,
is now you're not scared of the equipment.
Now you understand what the equipment
does and as you climb up the mountain,
as you figure out that journey,
make sure to leave a map for
other people to see how
you're going as well.
Thanks very much for hanging in
through a pretty intense course.
If your brain is wiped out,
my brain is certainly wiped out.
So thanks for hanging in for
a pretty tough course.
I hope that you have learned and most
of all, I hope that we've sparked some
curiosity for you to see how to apply
these functional principles in your code.
Thanks a lot.
>> Class: [APPLAUSE]